Welcome, in this video, we're going to look at comparing commits in GitHub.
There are several ways to compare commits; one way is just to go
to the commits tab on your current branch,
and by default, when you go to a specific commit at the bottom of the commit page,
you actually have a diff comparing the current commit versus the prior commit.
And, in doing so, it provides a familiar interface that is common
throughout GitHub for doing compares or diffs.
And, on this specific commit page, we do have the option
to add comments at the code level, or at the overall commit level.
For example, I could come over here and add a message at this line,
which comments in general in GitHub will support Markdown syntax.
You can preview, and once you're happy with your comment click on "Comment".
If you want this comment to be associated with the entire commit,
just leave a comment at the bottom of the commit page. You can preview once again;
now, once you're happy, click on "Comment on this commit".
Great, now let's return to the main repository page, and click on comments.
On the comments page, we see that we have a comments icon
that indicates that we have a couple of comments associated with this specific commit.
Let's copy the SHA-1 associated with this commit;
click on the "copy to clipboard" button, and now let's use the pull request page
to actually do our comparison. Click on pull request, then click on new pull request.
In addition to comparing branches, you can compare branches to
other references in GitHub, including commits. We'll leave the base to develop,
and then we'll do the dropdown for the source location.
This dropdown allows us to specify a branch, tag, commit, or other history marker.
So now, I'm going to paste in the commit id that I just copied.
One you do that, select the commit id once it finds a match.
Sometimes, you don't see any differences,
so let's switch branches to master; now we see some differences.
When we do the compare with commits that have comments involved with them,
we see that we have commit comments associated
with this particular comparison and we see the comments listed below.
If we want to go a little deeper, we can; within the comparing changes interface,
we have the option to click on a specific commit.
Alright, let's return to our comparison. And what you'll notice is,
although we go to this page through the create a pull request mechanism,
if we are comparing against a specific commit or tag
that doesn't qualify as something we can pull request, the ability to do pull requests
only happens when you're comparing against branches.
And, we'll cover pull requests in more detail in upcoming videos.